feature/MTM-46141-Add-requirements-for-managing-permissions (#997)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/users-guide/administration-bundle/managing-permissions.md

  In the **Inventory roles** tab you can manage user permissions for particular groups of devices and/or its children. For example, an inventory role can contain the permission to restart a particular device."
---

Permissions define what a user is allowed to do in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications. To manage permissions more easily, they are grouped into global and inventory roles. Every user can be associated with a number of roles, adding up permissions of the user.

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
ROLES & PERMISSIONS:

> * To view global roles, inventory roles, applications: READ permission for the "User management" permission type.

Reviewer: a verb is lacking for ` READ permission for the "User management" permission type.`  
what about ` add READ permission for the "User management" permission type.`
or ` READ permission for the "User management" permission type should be added`

Author: I think we intentionally skip `add` because of the use `:` which suggests that for doing something in some other case there might be more than single permission requirement. We also have it across other pages, it might be improved later by documentation team when the epic completed as an improvement to align to common pattern.

Reviewer 2: We do not need to have "add" here. This section simply lists the requirements/permissions a user must meet, from a user perspective.

* To manage global roles (assign to users, unassign from users), to manage inventory roles, to manage application access: ADMIN permission for the "User management" permission type.

> * To read owned permissions: CREATE permission for the "User management" permission type. This permission is, for example, useful if the user hierarchy feature is available but can also be used without it. In combination with the ADMIN permission it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by the current user, for example, a role with a subset of the permissions that the original user has.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To read owned permissions: CREATE permission for the "User management" permission type. This permission is  useful, for example, if the user hierarchy feature is available but can also be used without it. In combination with the ADMIN permission it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by the current user, for example, a role with a subset of the permissions that the original user has.
```

> * To read owned permissions: CREATE permission for the "User management" permission type. This permission is  useful, for example, if the user hierarchy feature is available but can also be used without it. In combination with the ADMIN permission it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by the current user, for example, a role with a subset of the permissions that the original user has.

Reviewer: `This permission is  useful, for example, if the user hierarchy feature is available but can also be used without it.` - is not clear enough

Author: How should I make it more clear? This is very special behavior of CREATE access level for case of roles management. CREATE does little effect on roles management, but affects user management directly.

Reviewer: I just don't understand how the feature can be used with and without permission and what the permission provides

Reviewer 3: I agree this point is confusing especially because it says "to read" and permission is called "CREATE". The paragraph should explain:
- why is it called CREATE if it allows for reading, what can be created?
- what does the CREATE permission alone allow for?
- what does it provide when used with user hierarchy feature and ADMIN permission?

Author: > why is it called CREATE if it allows for reading, what can be created?
> what does the CREATE permission alone allow for?

Permission type is "User management", therefor CREATE allows to CREATE users. But it doesn't allow to create roles. For feature user hierarchy, if CREATE assigned, hierarchy of current user and it's subusers can be READ without requirement for any additional permissions. By itself it allows to assign roles of current user to any sub user. 
   
> what does it provide when used with user hierarchy feature and ADMIN permission?

When used with ADMIN permission it allows to create new ROLES based on currently owned permissions. Like you can see the screen with check boxes and create a role by selecting all or some of those available.

Author: changed

On tenant creation, there are default roles available that can be used as a sample configuration for the above mentioned permissions:
* Global User Manager - Can access and modify the full user hierarchy

> * Shared User Manager - Can create new users as his own subusers and manage them ("feature-user-hierarchy" application subscription required)

Reviewer: `Can create new users as his own subusers and manage them ` - a bit hard to understand, so subuser can create a new user, which will be a parent user?

Author: Can create users under owned hierarchy. Better idea on this sentence?

Reviewer: maybe just `Can create new users under own hierarchy and manage them` ?

Reviewer 3: Would using exactly the same description as we display in UI help here?
![2023-05-05_11-45](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/92171763/236426629-8d843d62-77fd-46e3-8da2-4f04ef5786af.png)

Reviewer 2: Make sure that you spell it "sub-users" (with a hyphen), please :-).

Author: done

  In the **Inventory roles** tab you can manage user permissions for particular groups of devices and/or its children. For example, an inventory role can contain the permission to restart a particular device."
---

{{< c8y-admon-req >}}
ROLES & PERMISSIONS:

> "User management" permission:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> * To view global roles, inventory roles, applications: READ permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To view global roles, inventory roles, applications: READ permission for the "User management" permission type.
```

> * To view global roles, inventory roles, applications: READ access type.

Reviewer 2: We call it different in the documentation :-). "User management" is the permission type, and READ ist the permission level. We decided to leave the term "level" out here as it is somehow obvious. So we would phrase it "To view global roles, inventory roles, applications: READ permission for the permission type "User management" .

> * To view global roles, inventory roles, applications: READ access type.

Author: ok, changed. But without repeating "for the permission type...", because it's already mentioned in form of group title for given bullets list.

> * To manage global roles (assign/unassign to users), to manage inventory roles, to manage application access: ADMIN permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To manage global roles (assign to users/ unassign from users), to manage inventory roles, to manage application access: ADMIN permission for the "User management" permission type.
```

> * To read owned permissions: CREATE permission. This permission is specific and is very useful in case when "User Hierarchy" feature is available but can be used even without it. In conjunction with ADMIN access type it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by current user, for example creating a role with subset of permissions that original user have.

Reviewer 2: We should stick to a consistent phrasing which is "READ permission for the "User management" permission type".

> * To read owned permissions: CREATE permission. This permission is specific and is very useful in case when "User Hierarchy" feature is available but can be used even without it. In conjunction with ADMIN access type it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by current user, for example creating a role with subset of permissions that original user have.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To read owned permissions: CREATE permission. This permission is, for example, useful if the user hierarchy feature is available but can also be used without it. In combination with the ADMIN permission it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by the current user, for example, a role with a subset of the permissions that the original user has.
```

> * To read owned permissions: CREATE permission. This permission is specific and is very useful in case when "User Hierarchy" feature is available but can be used even without it. In conjunction with ADMIN access type it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by current user, for example creating a role with subset of permissions that original user have.

Author: With ADMIN you create/edit/update, with CREATE you can read permissions assigned to own user.

> * To read owned permissions: CREATE permission. This permission is specific and is very useful in case when "User Hierarchy" feature is available but can be used even without it. In conjunction with ADMIN access type it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by current user, for example creating a role with subset of permissions that original user have.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, it's confusing: so there is nothing about creating for this CREATE permission?

> * To read owned permissions: CREATE permission. This permission is specific and is very useful in case when "User Hierarchy" feature is available but can be used even without it. In conjunction with ADMIN access type it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by current user, for example creating a role with subset of permissions that original user have.

Author: For case of permission management, it's only read, but if you consider that same permission applied to users, then there we have create. But indeed I also find it strange, therefor added backend to review :) @jkot-softwareag @karolkaczmarski-sag can you leave some feedback about it because my original comment remained without feedback and I have same doubts as Pawel

> * To read owned permissions: CREATE access type. This permission is specific and is very useful in case when "User Hierarchy" feature is available but can be used even without it. In conjunction with ADMIN access type it allows to create roles based on permissions owned by current user, for example creating a role with subset of permissions that original user have.

Author: This is very interesting option I has not been aware of. In user hierarchy feature we state that CREATE access type is sufficient to manage user hierarchy. But it doesn't allow to display or edit roles. It only allows to assign existing ones which has been assigned to current user.
In conjunction with ADMIN permission it is possible to do what said here. Yet with ADMIN permission it is also possible to update role that can't be seen... I wonder whenever for roles it would be better to use generated hash as id at some point in future...

On tenant creation, there are default roles available that can be used as a sample configuration for the above mentioned permissions:
* Global User Manager - Can access and modify the full user hierarchy
* Shared User Manager - Can create new users as his own subusers and manage them ("feature-user-hierarchy" application subscription required)
{{< /c8y-admon-req >}}

> Permissions define what a user is allowed to do in {{< product-c8y-iot >}} applications. To manage permissions more easily, they are grouped into so-called "roles". Every user can be associated with a number of roles, adding up permissions of the user.

Reviewer 3: "into so-called "roles"" -> "into global and inventory roles"? You already use "(global) role" term above, so if you want to introduce the concept, better have it before the first mention.

Reviewer 2: > "into so-called "roles"" -> "into global and inventory roles"? You already use "(global) role" term above, so if you want to introduce the concept, better have it before the first mention.

I agree, the requirements should go below this introductory sentence.

Author: ok
